>> Maximiliano Firtman: Hello, and
welcome to Practical Web App Patterns,
with Vanilla JavaScript.
So, my name is Maximiliano Firtman,
I can go by Max, I know it's a long name.
I'm Firt on X, Firtman on GitHub,
LinkedIn, and other social networks.
Firt.dev, my website,
let me go really quickly about myself.
I'm from Argentina,
I live in Buenos Aires, and
I'm a mobile web developer, so
I have been doing web apps and
web development since 1996,
1998, with JavaScript, actually.
I created more than, published, actually,
more than 150 web apps, most of them,
I would say that probably 90% of those web
apps were actually Vanilla JavaScript.
Then I also got into the mobile space,
so doing mobile apps.
And I authored several books and
a lot of courses on these topics,
typically around mobile development,
web development with JavaScript.
Also some, let's say, framework-related
courses, and web performance.
So, my usual topics
are around those ideas.
So, I published many books for
O'Reilly Media, and
the last book that I
authored is Learn PWA.
That is free, available on web.dev,
talking about progressive web apps.
And at Frontend Masters,
you will find a lot of courses
that I have authored on Frontend.
So for example, Vanilla JavaScript,
there is one on Vanilla JavaScript.
Data storage, we have hardware,
APIs, progressive web apps.
On mobile apps, with flutter,
Kotlin, Swift for iOS, for
Android, and also for
Flutter, for PWA development.
And also some backend courses,
for example, on Go and PHP.
So after saying that, what we're going
to cover today in this workshop.
So we will talk about design patterns, and
specifically talking about design
patterns for Vanilla JavaScript web apps.
That is part of what we're going to do.
So we will start talking about
what a design pattern is, and
we will apply many of
those design patterns.
Not all of them,
because we will need probably a month
if we wanna apply all of them.
And also, you will see later that it's
not a good idea to actually implement all
the design patterns all the time.
So we are going to implement and
apply some of those design patterns
that we will see on three different
projects that we will see later.
So we will start talking about classic
design patterns in software design,
and how we can apply them in JavaScript.
So, we know that JavaScript is a flexible
language compared with Java, C#, or C++.
So we don't need to actually copy
exactly the recipes that were applied
in other languages in JavaScript.
But we can take the ideas, we can
understand why that idea is important and
the problem that the idea is solving, and
then trying to apply that in JavaScript
for a Vanilla JavaScript project.
We will get then into some specific
design patterns that we can apply for
single page applications.
So when you have full JavaScript client
side application that is just one HTML,
so one HTTP navigation.
And from there you are changing routes or
pages directly with JavaScript
using the DOM API, some multi
page application design patterns.
So if you are creating just a web
app that has different HTMLs, and
you just are creating links between
those HTMLs like a classic website.
Well, we can still apply some
design patterns to improve
the experience that we have as users.
And then we will get into data and
state management design patterns, so
when typically this is useful for
a large scale applications,
when you have a lot of
data that you manage.
Well, some ideas that you can apply,
and finally,
some other advanced ideas that are coming
to the web app design pattern work.
So pre-requisites, so, you should
have experience with JavaScript,
and prefer Vanilla JavaScript basic
concepts to understand the DOM and
some other ideas.
Such as using the History API
to work with different routes,
and a web browser,
you just need a web browser.
For only one design pattern, at least
at the time of recording this Course,
you will need Chrome Canary or
Chrome Beta, actually, for
Chrome 1.26, but only for
one special part.
So in case you don't have it,
you can go and download Chrome Canary,
to test that particular feature
that we will see later.
Of course, if you have Chrome stable 1.26,
it's goonna work anyway.
A code editor, I'm going to use Visual
Studio code, but whatever works for you.
We don't need Node.js, we are not going
to use any library or any dependency.
So no Node modules,
no NPM install, nothing, okay?
It's just pure HTML, CSS, and JavaScript,
that's all we are going to write today.
So after saying that, this is the URL for
the worship,
firtman.github.io/webapp-patterns,
there you will find a step by
step guide of what we will cover
later when we will start
applying these design patterns.
Also, later I will show you where
you can go and find the repo for
the projects,
you have the link there as well.
And also, you have a copy of the slides.